1. Examine the Sender's Email Address for Spoofing 

 Sender Email: 
 support@microsoft-securityverify.com 

 Observation 
 ● The sender attempts to impersonate Microsoft. 
 ● The domain microsoft-securityverify.com is not an oficial Microsoft domain. 
 ● Attackers often register look-alike domains to deceive users. 
 ● The display name "Microsoft Account Team" is intended to make the email appear 
 legitimate. 
 

 2. Check Email Headers for Discrepancies 

 Sample Header Analysis 
 ● Return-Path: support@microsoft-securityverify.com 
 ● Received: Email originated from an unknown mail server. 
 ● SPF: Failed 
 ● DKIM: Not Present● DMARC: Failed 
 
Findings 
 ● SPF authentication failed. 
 ● No DKIM signature was found. 
 ● DMARC validation failed. 
 ● The sender's domain is not trusted. 
 ● The email originated from an unknown server rather than Microsoft's oficial mail 
 servers. 
 

 3. Identify Suspicious Links and Attachments 

 Suspicious Link 
 https://login.microsoft-secureverify.com/authentication 
 
Analysis 
 ● The domain is not owned by Microsoft. 
 ● It attempts to imitate an oficial Microsoft login page. 
 ● The purpose is likely to steal user credentials. 

 Attachments 
 No attachments were included in the email. 
 

4. Look for Urgent or Threatening Language 

The following statements create urgency and fear: 
 ● "You must verify your identity immediately." 
 ● "Failure to verify your account within 12 hours will result in your account being 
 temporarily disabled." 
 ● "We detected an unusual sign-in attempt." 
 
Analysis 
 The attacker pressures the recipient to act quickly without verifying the authenticity of the 
 email. 
 

 
5. Note Any Mismatched URLs 
 
Displayed Link 
 https://login.microsoft.com 

 Actual Destination 
 https://login.microsoft-secureverify.com/authentication 

 Analysis 
 Although the displayed text appears to point to Microsoft's oficial website, the actual 
 destination is a fake domain controlled by attackers. 
 

 6. Verify Presence of Spelling or Grammar Errors 

Observations
● No significant spelling mistakes were identified. 
 ● The email contains awkward wording and unnatural sentence construction. 
 ● The writing style is overly aggressive and threatening. 
 

 7. Summary of Phishing Traits Found 

The following phishing characteristics were identified: 
 
 Spoofed sender address : ✔ Detected 
 Fake domain : ✔ Detected 
 SPF authentication failure : ✔ Detected 
 DKIM missing : ✔ Detected 
 DMARC failure : ✔ Detected 
 Suspicious link : ✔ Detected 
 Mismatched URL : ✔ Detected 
 Urgent language : ✔ Detected 
 Threatening language : ✔ Detected 
 Request for sensitive information : ✔ Detected 
 Generic greeting : ✔ Detected 
 Grammar/style issues : ✔ Detected